To be fair, all the best-tasting cakes made from scratch are a little difficult. But as life goes, it's not one of the biggest challenges you'll face. Be accurate with measurements and temperatures, have all of your bits set up and ready in advance, and every cake recipe will be much easier. This sour cream cake is very buttery and best eaten cold. The mixture is versatile; it will happily fit into a 20cm round or 18cm square tin, or can be used for small cupcakes. I like to bake it in an ordinary 2lb loaf tin. The quantity of batter here would normally spill over the sides, but I put a foil collar in the tin which gives it a bit of elegant height. It's a trick you can use with any tin if you need a deeper cake, or if you have more mixture in the recipe than will fit in it. Sour cream butter cake 200g unsalted butter, softened 250g caster sugar 2 large eggs 200g sour cream 300g plain flour 3 level tsp baking powder Butter and line the base of a 20cm round, 18cm square or 2lb loaf tin with non-stick baking parchment, held in place with a little butter. If you are using the loaf tin, take a sheet of aluminium foil three times the length of the tin and fold the upper and lower thirds inwards. This will produce one very long narrow foil collar. Carefully bend the foil so it sits upright and tight against the inside of the loaf tin and pinch the join together so it won't unravel. Cream the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat well till combined. An electric mixer really does the best job here. Beat in the sour cream till it vanishes into the mixture, then sift the flour and baking powder together and beat this through. Spoon the mixture into the tin, heat the oven to 180C (160C fan-assisted) and bake for 45 minutes (shallow cake) to an hour (deep loaf tin with a collar) or until a skewer inserted comes out clean. Variations Cinnamon swirl Stir together 25g soft light brown sugar, 1 level tbsp cocoa and 2 level tsp cinnamon in a cup. Remove half the cake batter as soon as it's mixed, sift the cinnamon mixture in and beat it through. Dollop the plain cake mixture into the tin alternately with the cinnamon-flavoured mixture and then, using a skewer, gently swirl the mixture together. Tap the tin firmly on the work surface to knock out any air bubbles, then bake as recommended above and drizzle with lemon water icing (see Icing and topping after baking). Caraway seed Simply beat in 2 level tsp caraway seeds before spooning the mixture into the tin. Mocha chocolate Before making the cake, dissolve 3 level tbsp cocoa and 1 level tsp instant coffee in a cup with 50ml cold water. Stir into a paste, then beat this through the butter and sugar mixture before adding the eggs. Melt 100g dark chocolate and beat this in, then continue with the recipe. Bake as recommended above, and drizzle with coffee water icing (see Icing and topping after baking). Ginger and treacle Beat 50g treacle and 100g very finely chopped glacé ginger (drained of any syrup) with the butter and sugar before adding the eggs. Sift 4 level tsp ground ginger with the flour and baking powder, then continue with the recipe. Bake as recommended above. Orange marmalade Beat the finely grated zest of 3 oranges and 50g good marmalade into the butter, sugar and egg mixture. Once the cake is cold, remove it from the tin and sit it on a cake rack. Peel off the paper carefully and spoon on the orange sugar glaze (see Icing and topping after baking).